Guys, welcome back.
So in this lecture, we will go over how we can retrieve some useful information from a string.
This is a very common injury question, and the interviewer wants to know if you can manipulate the
data coming from a string and show it on the UI dynamically.
So this problem is called Lente of the last word.
And what this is about is saying that given a string as consist of upper and lower case alphabets and
empty space characters return the length of the last word.
Last word means the last appearing word.
If we loop from left to right in a string and if the last word does not exist, we return to zero.
So in this example, you can see we have Hello World and the output is five because the last word is
five characters long.
Also, we want to note a word is defined as a maximum substring consisting of known space characters
only.
So meaning we should not count any spaces.
OK, so right here we can see that this string has multiple spaces in that.
And to better understand the string, we can write it like this so that we can show the underscore as
spaces.
And to count the last word, we want to create two variables that can keep track of what's going on.
So the first variable will be.
On last word, which equals false.
So it will be false until we reach a non empty space and once we land on a
a character, we will make it true.
So since this is a space, we're going to keep this false or once we reach the deal, we will make this
true.
And the second variable would be last.
Last word length,
which would equal zero in the beginning.
So since we're going to create like a loop through this string, every time we land on a non-empty character,
we will increment this last word length and we will make this on last word to true.
So pretty much now we're going to do a for loop and we will check each character in the string.
So is this a non-empty character?
No, it's not.
Is this a non empty character?
Yes, it is.
So we will make this into true and we will incremented this last word lent by one.
Sorry.
And the loop will continue checking each character, so d l r o w and that would make this counter,
this lacework lent to fight.
And then once we reach this empty character, we are going to look at the on the last word variable.
And if it's true, we're going to break out and just return the last word length.
So the reason we have this on last word is because what the Loop is trying to do is we're trying to
break after we reach a empty character, but we don't want to break until we at least count the last
word length.
So once we are on the first non-empty character, we want to say we are on the last words we're on.
The last word equals true.
OK, let me show you that on the code.
So this is what the function looks like.
And what's provided is that the function name is length of last word.
And this function we have the parameters, which is a you can see up here, which is a string, we're
given a string and we need to return a number.
So the length of the last word.
OK, so first we can start by creating the variables which we have, which we have defined here, so.
On last word.
Which will equal faults in the first.
And last word, lente, which equals zero in the beginning.
So what we want to do is we always want to do a check always at the beginning, so we don't run through
the code for no reason.
So we do this by doing a statement.
So if.
Estcourt lenth.
Equal, equal, zero, that means empty, so we can just.
So they just return.
This last word, lente.
Since we did not incremented this, we can just return to the last word.
OK, so then we should create a for loop so we can iterate over this string, which is provided.
So what we want to do is we want to iterate from right to left.
So that would be like going backwards in history.
So what we can do that by putting I let it go
start and.
So let's say the length of this is five.
OK, but since it's in, we want to know the index.
And the index would be zero, one, two, three, four.
So we have to do minus one.
And.
Oh, while I is.
Greater than or equal to zero, so we want to go from the land all the way down to zero.
So let's say the land is like 10.
I'm just saying.
And then we just decrement all the way down to zero.
And we do that by minus minus.
OK, so what we want to do is we want to check.
So let's read a statement right here.
If.
It's got character at.
I equal, equal.
An empty character.
Sorry, our credo should be does not equal a. character.
So if that happens, let's say we are at this one.
This is an empty character.
And then we land on D, which is not an empty character.
So now we know we are on our last word.
We on the last word.
So right here, take this and we make it into true.
And then we want to go to the next letter.
So all we have to do is.
Actually, this will go through the loop, will go to the next letter, so all we need to do is saying
that the last four length, as we know now, is one, because we landed on Derate.
So now we just have to incrementalists this last word length.
So the last four plus plus will increment this.
From zero into one.
OK, and else meaning.
That Astarte character at I.
Is equal to empty, so that means we've already gone through the we've already gone through his entire
word or this word and we've landed on an empty.
So what we want to do is if in this statement, we can do if.
Um, on last word.
Is equal to true, so that means we've already entered the last word and after the last word, we entered
a we entered into an empty character.
So that means we've already counted over.
Last word, let.
And I'm writing it like this is because this pretty much means is it equal to true?
So if on this word and this means that it's true, all we want to do is break out of this loop.
OK, and once we break out of this loop, then we just want to.
Return.
Last word, let.
So let me explain to you this.
So.
We are on the last character right here since this loop starts backwards.
So this is an empty character, right, and what we're seeing here, if it's not an empty chair, if
it's not an empty character, right.
So it will just go through this tape and it won't do anything.
It will go to the next.
Next, characters dream.
Is this an empty character?
This is not an empty character.
So we're going to enter this if statement.
Because we have landed on a not empty character, which is deep.
So we want to say, yes, we are on the last word now.
So true.
And we want to say that the last word lente.
We're going to incremented by one because we found the first character of the last word, then we're
going to go through the whole word.
And we're going to keep incrementing until we had the empty.
Character right here.
And highlight this character.
So we had the empty character, so we're going to go into the Elst clause and we're going to check if
we already on the last word or just then we are on the we are we already finished going to the last
word.
So we're just going to break and we're going to turn the last word lente.
OK, so let's now just run the code to see if it's working.
OK, what happened here?
OK, so what we need to do is make this into let.
Because constant is constant and we cannot update it, but we can update.
So once I made this into that.
I'm able to change the value of it into two.
Let's run again.
OK, so it looks like it's working out for.
Was five and expected was five, and you can submit.
OK, so it was sixty four milliseconds faster than eighty four percent of the JavaScript online submissions
for a word.
This is all for now.
Let me know if you have any questions and join me on the next one.
Good luck.